in the past three years create here has
been able to relocate 24 artists to
homes in Chattanooga's developing urban
core through the art smooth program this
program offers mortgage systems to
qualified working artists and to date
the resulting home sales come in right
around 3.8 million dollars we visited /
spanker Lisa Cutler in her fort negley
home which she purchased with help from
the Art Smith program we talked about
her work her neighborhood and what it
means to be an artist in Chattanooga so
in 2006 I did the four bridges Arts
Festival and when I showed up they
handed me a packet about create here I
was living in omaha nebraska and handed
me this packet and i set up and i kinda
ignored the packet and i went to my
hotel room that night and I was like
looking out over this beautiful mountain
and I was like what's this I started
reading about the city and just got
really excited about Chattanooga as a
city and then what they were doing with
the art smooth program like it was just
so interesting and I never really heard
of anything like that so just over the
course of that weekend I kept telling
people how lovely I thought I'd nigga
was and everyone would say well you
should move here I finally asked them
and I'm like does the chamber pay you
guys to say that like that's really
creepy because everybody says that
they're like no it really is just that
nice of the city you should really move
here so um that was in april and i did i
moved here in june of that year so soon
after at Lisa set up a working studio in
her basement to produce her portable
masterpieces so when i was 12 i made a
purse and I thought it was really cool
so I went to school the next day with my
purse and I had some asked me if I'd
make them one and if they could buy it
from me so I really like to make money
so I was like sure so I started making
purses in the sixth grade and selling
them and I really never stopped and and
what I'm doing right now I love the
purses i really like clean tailored
shapes and because i love
graphic prints and I think if you have a
really clean shape you can have a really
bold print and it's not distracting and
I like found objects so i've been using
the bungee cords as handles and that's
kind of the signature look for the lisa
see purses is the bungee cord handles
all of which I make myself I don't just
buy bungee cords and put them on there I
make them by hand this was the first
year fine arts jury fine art show that I
ever did and and we laugh about this now
but when we showed up I wouldn't get out
of the car I was watching other people
unload and I just sat in the car and
cried because I just didn't think that I
deserve to be showing with those people
I was just like mortified and by how
talented everyone was and I just thought
I should stay in the car because they
had made a mistake by inviting me to the
show and when I finally did get out
ramsha Alfonso or some of my neighbors
and they were just so nice to me I
really made me feel like I belonged and
that I could be successful with what I
was doing because I had only been doing
it for like six months at the time and
that was a defining moment for me to be
in my first raid fine art show to do
really well and to be invited to
participate in an Art Smith program so
did you own a home before this no I
didn't own a home I didn't have any
aspirations down at home I didn't have
the money to own a home so I think there
were a lot of really big things that
happened um it wasn't gonna be viable
for me to be a full-time artist in Omaha
there just weren't the markets there I
didn't have the support i didn't know
another artist period like I just didn't
know artists in Omaha doh I guess I knew
some musicians but I didn't know anyone
who's doing shows and making a living
off that so not only did moving here
give us a huge like income basically
because it paid for down payment on the
house and was it it was a huge part of
our income that year but it put me in
contact with all kinds of other artists
who were doing shows for living and they
really helped me they they really like
mentored me and help me figure out what
I need do to get into better
shows and even like have gone on the
road with me so it's really good travel
on the road and people say oh you wanna
Jana go there a lot of artists there I
try to explain them like some of the
programs that we have that make it so
enticing for artists to move here and I
mean one of the big ones is that it's
not like they just move me here and let
go of me and never you know never
followed up with me never provided
anything again they do kind of hold your
hand I mean they obviously introduced me
to several artists that I didn't know
and those artists help me with other
things but then they have the ongoing
programs like a springboard and then
make work grants and and even just
having availability of that whole office
full of people with expertise that I
just don't have to be able to walk down
the street and be like okay I need to
find an accountant can you help me do
that and just there are a lot of cities
that are doing that type of work for
artists and some of Education that
they're doing for non artists it is just
creating a whole culture of appreciation
for the Arts that I think is
unparalleled especially beautiful